# Dissertation_Repo

This respository contains sample code, data, and working papers affiliated with my dissertation entitled "Adolscent Racial Environment & Long Term Shifts in Political Behavior: How Educational Experiences Shape Partisanship and Racial Attitudes in the United States." I examine the impact of increased racial segregation in school districts during adolescence on the partisanship of non-Hispanic whites well into adulthood. Increasing levels of racial segregation were due to dismissals of school districts from their court-mandated desegregation plans. After dismissal, the courts stopped monitoring the desegregation efforts of school districts and districts were allowed to return to neighborhood based schooling plans. Other academic work has shown that dismissal from these desegregation plans lead to an increase in segregation along racial and ethnic lines. 

Data on school districts and dismissals comes from Stanford and Pro-Publica (district_court_order.dta and pro_publica_dates.xlsx respectively). I find the corresponding high schools operating within all school districts that were under a court-ordered desegregation plan as of 1990 from the Department of Education's Common Core of Data (https://nces.ed.gov/ccd/). The first part of the dissertation scrapes Classmates, a social networking site aimed at reconnecting high school alumni, to obtain first names, surnames, and graduation years for individuals located in a high school in one of these 470+ districts across 30 states. This was done for each high school individually, but a sample of how to do so for one school can be found in the file named "classmates_scraping_example.py." Overall, about 12 million individuals were registered to these schools. These users were then linked to the national voter file maintained by L2 (access provided by NYU; https://guides.nyu.edu/l2political). Due to the size of the national voter file, it was broken up by the first letter of a person's last name, as well as their age bracket (18-25, 26-30, etc), then the merging took place (see merge_example.R for sample code for people with last names beginning with "A" between 18 and 25). 

For this dissertation paper, matched data from Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee are used. I find that as white students' high schools become less racially diverse, they were significantly more likely to identify as Democrats twenty years after graduating. A current copy of the paper is included and the file is entitled "Mattia_Resegregation_Partisanship_10_23.pdf." Sample code for how to produce a few key figures in the paper can be found in "plot_graph.R" and "plot_map.R" with corresponding figures "yr_diss.jpeg" and "six_states_proj.pdf". Shape files for the 2009-2010 academic year can be found at the following: https://nces.ed.gov/programs/edge/Geographic/DistrictBoundaries. Code and data to reproduce estimates is available upon request. 

The second paper in the dissertation uses the same universe of school districts to test whether participation on more racially homogeous athletic teams has long-term effects on the partisanship of non-Hispanic white athletes. Data for this project is currently being collected and comes from MaxPreps, a subsidiary of CBS sports that focuses on high school athletics. I am currently in the process of scraping both roster and rankings information. Sample code for scraping rankings data can be found in the Jupyter notebook file entitled "rankings_scraping_example.ipynb." 
